# AplicacionPaciente
The aim of TSAppp is to telemonitorize biosignals (EMG and ECG) that can be used as indicators in order to establish patterns that can allow doctors to predict an epileptic crisis.

**MONITORIZE SEIZURES AT HOME**

TSApp is designed to offer an easier way to monitor the disease from home and establish patterns that can allow doctors to predict an epileptic crisis. By analyzing the symptoms, activities, ECG and EMG signals over time your doctor can adjust your medication or apply the therapies required to ensure your epilepsy is under control. 

The study of the brain activity is fundamental, because it permits to recognize changes in your normal brain wave pattern, which are common in patients with epilepsy even when they are not having a seizure, and permits recording seizures, which can help your doctor determine what type of seizures you have or rule out other conditions. To establish the diagnosis, a neurological examination and electroencephalogram are fundamental.  

Once the patient has been diagnosed with epilepsy, his treatment will depend fundamentally on factors related to response to medication and the seizure episodes: frequency, duration and possible triggers. When suffering a seizure, the patient has uncontrollable tremor that is rapid and rhythmic, with the muscles contracting and relaxing repetitively. Cardiac arrhythmias are frequently seen in patients with seizures, usually presenting tachycardia, but in some cases bradycardia. For this reason, we monitor both ECG and EMG values of the patient through the BITalino. 

This application also acts as a diary, containing all your symptoms, physiological parameters, and keeping track of seizure episodes, including possible triggers and what they were doing and where they were when they occurred. This is key information to share with your doctor to improve the control of the disease, adjust your treatment, improve therapeutic compliance and generate confidence in the patient.

**HOW TO USE**

To use TSApp you will need to use a java development environment and a BITalino that will be delivered by your doctor during the first consultation. 

**1. Introduce your IP address**:
To start using TSApp you need to introduce the IP of your PC. To know the IP of your PC, you need to follow these steps: 

  1. Click on the Windows icon and access the Terminal of your PC.
  2. Introduce the command >ipconfig /all 
  3. You can find your IP address in the section “Adaptador de LAN inalámbrica Wi-Fi”, in “Dirección IPv4”.

**2. Register**
Telesomnia is a platform supervised by medical experts. In order to guarantee the safety of our patients the registration may be supervised by a doctor. 

This register will include the following information:
- Medical Card Number 

- Name 

- Surname 

- Gender 

- Date of birth 

- Address 

- Email 

- Diagnosis 

- Allergies 

- MAC Address: with the format XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX you can find the MAC address on the back of your BITalino. When introducing this MAC address allows to connect the BITalino with the PC. 

- Username 

- Password 

*Username and passwords will be automatically generated by the program. 

Be careful when introducing your personal data, as once you have been registered you will not be able to change these attributes. The only attribute you will be able to change is the MAC Address in case your doctor provides you with a new BITalino. The diagnosis and allergies will only be modified by your doctor.

Be careful when introducing your personal data, as once you have been registered you will not be able to change these attributes. The only attribute you will be able to change is the MAC Address in case your doctor provides you with a new BITalino. The diagnosis and allergies will only be modified by your doctor. 

Finally, you will have to select your doctor. You can consult the list with all the doctors of the hospital and, afterwards, introduce the ID of the doctor you want to mark. 

**3. Log In**

Introduce your username and password to enter your personal profile and access the main page. Your username and password will be provided after the register, make sure you keep it in a safe place. 

**4. Main Page**

In the main page you will find a menu containing the following options: 

- **Record signal:** used to record ECG and EMG signals simultaneously using the BITalino. You will be able to start and stop the recording and observe the signal(s) recorded. These signals will be automatically named and stored so that you and your doctor can access them afterwards. In case you cannot record the signal due to connection failure, make sure you have introduced the correct MAC address. In that case, go back to the main page and select the option “Update MAC address”. 

- **Consult signals:** used to access your recorded signals. The name of the signals will be displayed, depending on the option selected, grouped by ECG signals, EMG signals or all of them will be displayed. 

- **Update MAC address:** in case your doctor provides you with a new BITalino, you may have to update your assigned MAC address in order to connect it to your computer. 

**5. Electrodes**

In addition to the BITalino, your doctor will provide you with the necessary electrodes. These Ag-Ag Cl electrodes are used for the acquisition of the signal. 

The first step is to plug in the leads of the three electrodes to the ECG output of the BITalino and the two electrodes to the EMG output of the BITalino. 

**Positioning of the ECG electrodes**

  1. Place the positive electrode (red) on the left side, under the pectoral muscles, on the lower edge of the ribcage. 

  2. Place the negative electrode (black) under the right clavicle, within the range of the ribcage and near to the right shoulder. 

  3. Place the ground electrode (white) under the left clavicle, symmetrically to the positive electrode. 
 
**Positioning of the EMG electrodes**
  1. Place the positive electrode (red) and the negative electrode (black) on your forearm. 

  2. Place the ground electrode (white) over the radius of the same wrist where the positive and negative electrodes were positioned. 

The position of the cables of the electrodes can be ensured by using adhesive tape. 

**6. Recording of EMG and ECG**

**Windows**

  1. **Log in TSApp:** introduce the username and password given by your doctor.  

  2. **Turn on the BITalino:** switch left the power button located in the upper side of the BITalino. A white light should appear when turned on. 

  3. **Bluetooth connection:** 

  - Click on the Windows icon and select **“Settings”**. 

  - In the Windows Settings, select **Devices**. 
  
  - Go to **“Bluetooth & other devices”**, turn on Bluetooth and click on **“Add Bluetooth or other device”**. 

  - Select **Bluetooth** and wait for your computer to find your BITalino. In the case of having more than one BITalino near your computer, you can identify it by its 12-digit code. 

  - Click on the name of your BITalino and introduce the PIN code “1234”. Then click connect.

  4. **Positioning of electrodes:** place the ECG and EMG electrodes as described in the previous section. 

  5. In the main page of the application go to **“Record signal”** and press **“Start recording”** to start monitoring your EMG and ECG signal. Once 2 minutes have passed, the recording stops. The recording will be automatically saved, and you can access them by going back to the main page and selecting “Show my recordings”. If something went wrong during the recording, you could delete it by selecting “Delete recording” on the main page. 

**MAC OS X**

If you are using MAC, the third step may change. In order to connect your BITalino via Bluetooth: 

1. Click on the Apple icon and select **“System preferences”**. 

2. Go to “Bluetooth” and turn it on. 

3. In the **“Bluetooth settings”**, choose “Connect” and enter the PIN code “1234”. If you have connected to this device before, double click the name of your BITalino and click “Connect”. 
